VirtualBox/docs/01-prerequisites.md, before:

# Kubernetes The Hard Way on VirtualBox

Begin here if your machine is Windows or Intel Mac. For these machines, we use VirtualBox as the hypervisor, and Vagrant to provision the Virtual Machines.

This should also work with Linux (as the host operating system, not running in a VM), but it not so far tested.

## Prerequisites


### Hardware Requirements

This lab provisions 5 VMs on your workstation. That's a lot of compute resource!

- 16GB RAM. It may work with less, but will be slow and may crash unexpectedly.
- 8 core or better CPU e.g. Intel Core-i7/Core-i9, AMD Ryzen-7/Ryzen-9. May work with fewer, but will be slow and may crash unexpectedly.
- 50 GB disk space

### VirtualBox

Download and install [VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads) on any one of the supported platforms:

 - Windows
 - Intel Mac
 - Linux

### Vagrant

Once VirtualBox is installed you may chose to deploy virtual machines manually on it.
Vagrant provides an easier way to deploy multiple virtual machines on VirtualBox more consistently.

Download and install [Vagrant](https://www.vagrantup.com/) on your platform.

- Windows
- Debian/Ubuntu
- CentOS
- Linux
- Intel Mac

This tutorial assumes that you have also installed Vagrant.


### Lab Defaults

The labs have been configured with the following networking defaults. It is not recommended to change these. If you change any of these after you have deployed any of the lab, you'll need to completely reset it and start again from the beginning:

```bash
vagrant destroy -f
vagrant up
```

If you do change any of these, **please consider that a personal preference and don't submit a PR for it**.

#### Virtual Machine Network

The network used by the VirtualBox virtual machines is `192.168.56.0/24`.

To change this, edit the [Vagrantfile](../../vagrant/Vagrantfile) in your cloned copy (do not edit directly in github), and set the new value for the network prefix at line 9. This should not overlap any of the other network settings.

Note that you do not need to edit any of the other scripts to make the above change. It is all managed by shell variable computations based on the assigned VM  IP  addresses and the values in the hosts file (also computed).

It is *recommended* that you leave the pod and service networks with the following defaults. If you change them then you will also need to edit one or both of the CoreDNS and Weave networking manifests to accommodate your change.

#### Pod Network

The network used to assign IP addresses to pods is `10.244.0.0/16`.

To change this, open all the `.md` files in the [docs](../../docs/) directory in your favourite IDE and do a global replace on<br>
`POD_CIDR=10.244.0.0/16`<br>
with the new CDIR range.  This should not overlap any of the other network settings.

#### Service Network

The network used to assign IP addresses to Cluster IP services is `10.96.0.0/16`.

To change this, open all the `.md` files in the [docs](../../docs/) directory in your favourite IDE and do a global replace on<br>
`SERVICE_CIDR=10.96.0.0/16`<br>
with the new CDIR range.  This should not overlap any of the other network settings.

Additionally edit line 164 of [coredns.yaml](../../deployments/coredns.yaml) to set the new DNS service address (should still end with `.10`)

## Running Commands in Parallel with tmux

[tmux](https://github.com/tmux/tmux/wiki) can be used to run commands on multiple compute instances at the same time. Labs in this tutorial may require running the same commands across multiple compute instances, in those cases consider using tmux and splitting a window into multiple panes with synchronize-panes enabled to speed up the provisioning process.

> The use of tmux is optional and not required to complete this tutorial.

![tmux screenshot](../../images/tmux-screenshot.png)

> Enable synchronize-panes by pressing `CTRL+B` followed by `"` to split the window into two panes. In each pane (selectable with mouse), ssh to the host(s) you will be working with.</br>Next type `CTRL+X` at the prompt to begin sync. In sync mode, the dividing line between panes will be red. Everything you type or paste in one pane will be echoed in the other.<br>To disable synchronization type `CTRL+X` again.</br></br>Note that the `CTRL-X` key binding is provided by a `.tmux.conf` loaded onto the VM by the vagrant provisioner.

Next: [Compute Resources](02-compute-resources.md)

Commit message:

feat: modification to support home lab
- VM uses Hyper-V
- VM are assigned IPs in internal network 10.0.0.0/24 (requires external switch)
- uses kubeadm

VirtualBox/docs/01-prerequisites.md, after:

# Kubernetes The Hard Way on VirtualBox

Begin here if your machine is Windows or Intel Mac. For these machines, we use VirtualBox as the hypervisor, and Vagrant to provision the Virtual Machines.

This should also work with Linux (as the host operating system, not running in a VM), but it not so far tested.

## Prerequisites


### Hardware Requirements

This lab provisions 5 VMs on your workstation. That's a lot of compute resource!

- 16GB RAM. It may work with less, but will be slow and may crash unexpectedly.
- 8 core or better CPU e.g. Intel Core-i7/Core-i9, AMD Ryzen-7/Ryzen-9. May work with fewer, but will be slow and may crash unexpectedly.
- 50 GB disk space

### Hyper-V

Hyper-V must be enabled on the hosts

### Vagrant

Download and install [Vagrant](https://www.vagrantup.com/) on your platform (host and WSL2).

- Windows
- Debian/Ubuntu
- CentOS
- Linux
- Intel Mac

This tutorial assumes that you have also installed Vagrant on the host and WSL.


```bash
# Install vagrant reload provisionner so changes made to use static IP are applied
vagrant plugin install vagrant-reload

echo 'export VAGRANT_WSL_ENABLE_WINDOWS_ACCESS="1"' >> ~/.bashrc
echo 'export VAGRANT_DEFAULT_PROVIDER=hyperv >>' ~/.bashrc
echo 'export VAGRANT_WSL_WINDOWS_ACCESS_USER_HOME_PATH="/mnt/d/work"' >> ~/.bashrc
```

### Lab Defaults

The labs have been configured with the following networking defaults. It is not recommended to change these. If you change any of these after you have deployed any of the lab, you'll need to completely reset it and start again from the beginning:

```bash
vagrant destroy -f
vagrant up
```

If you do change any of these, **please consider that a personal preference and don't submit a PR for it**.

#### Virtual Machine Network

The network used by the VirtualBox virtual machines is 10.0.0.0/24

To change this, edit the [Vagrantfile](../../vagrant/Vagrantfile) in your cloned copy (do not edit directly in github), and set the new value for the network prefix at line 9. This should not overlap any of the other network settings.

Note that you do not need to edit any of the other scripts to make the above change. It is all managed by shell variable computations based on the assigned VM  IP  addresses and the values in the hosts file (also computed).

It is *recommended* that you leave the pod and service networks with the following defaults. If you change them then you will also need to edit one or both of the CoreDNS and Weave networking manifests to accommodate your change.

#### Pod Network

The network used to assign IP addresses to pods is `10.244.0.0/16`.

To change this, open all the `.md` files in the [docs](../../docs/) directory in your favourite IDE and do a global replace on<br>
`POD_CIDR=10.244.0.0/16`<br>
with the new CDIR range.  This should not overlap any of the other network settings.

#### Service Network

The network used to assign IP addresses to Cluster IP services is `10.96.0.0/16`.

To change this, open all the `.md` files in the [docs](../../docs/) directory in your favourite IDE and do a global replace on<br>
`SERVICE_CIDR=10.96.0.0/16`<br>
with the new CDIR range.  This should not overlap any of the other network settings.

Additionally edit line 164 of [coredns.yaml](../../deployments/coredns.yaml) to set the new DNS service address (should still end with `.10`)

## Running Commands in Parallel with tmux

[tmux](https://github.com/tmux/tmux/wiki) can be used to run commands on multiple compute instances at the same time. Labs in this tutorial may require running the same commands across multiple compute instances, in those cases consider using tmux and splitting a window into multiple panes with synchronize-panes enabled to speed up the provisioning process.

> The use of tmux is optional and not required to complete this tutorial.

![tmux screenshot](../../images/tmux-screenshot.png)

> Enable synchronize-panes by pressing `CTRL+B` followed by `"` to split the window into two panes. In each pane (selectable with mouse), ssh to the host(s) you will be working with.</br>Next type `CTRL+X` at the prompt to begin sync. In sync mode, the dividing line between panes will be red. Everything you type or paste in one pane will be echoed in the other.<br>To disable synchronization type `CTRL+X` again.</br></br>Note that the `CTRL-X` key binding is provided by a `.tmux.conf` loaded onto the VM by the vagrant provisioner.

Next: [Compute Resources](02-compute-resources.md)
